Now we've got to start hooking
up some of the handlers and
keeping track of some of the state things.
So there's a lot of things to
keep track of but don't worry,
I always wanna walk you
through my thought process and
why I think we need to keep
track of certain things.
There's also some gotchas going on with
the state and functional components.
That's some really advanced react
stuff that I ran into, two years ago.
I mean, I was just so stuck on it.
I just did not get it.
So I was really excited when
I saw the same issue here.
And I was, I get to talk about this,
this is cool.
So, let's do it.
Let's hop into the code.
So some of the things that we
need to keep track of actually,
let me go to the design first,
is if we just look at the UI,
this is how you can kind of figure
out what you need to keep track of.
We need to keep track of whether or
not someone clicked the shuffle button.
So we need to keep track of
is shuffled true or false.
Same thing for repeat,
we gotta keep track of that.
We also need to keep track
of if you're playing or
not that way we can either show the play
button or the pause button, okay?
We don't really need to keep track of
anything when it comes to the next or
the previous because they just
do things when you hit them.
They don't actually hold any information,
they just respond to a click.
We do need to keep track
of the current duration,
which ReactHowler,
I think does a lot of that for us.
We need to keep track of the value of the
seekBar, so we can actually increase it,
so it moves as we go.
And we need to keep track
of the song that's playing.
So we know the duration of it here.
Yeah, I think that's all
the stuff we got to keep track of.
So there's a lot of things going on there.
And there might be some auxiliary
state that we need to watch for,
like the player load, did the song load,
different things like that.
But as far as the UI is concerned, those
are the things that we need to keep track
of, so
we can actually represent them in the UI.
So knowing that we're gonna
set up a lot of that state.
Next, so we'll just go to the top
here of our component and
we'll start setting some state here.
So and
also the other thing we wanna think about
is what does the input for
this player look like?
Just to make it simple.
I say, we should we should
make a text list of songs.
So like a playlist and then it also
takes an active song, so we'll do that.
So it takes the song that's currently
playing that way you can click on a song
anywhere in the app and
it'll play that song, but
it can also take a list of songs and
it'll start from there and keep going.
So, we'll do that.
And then as far as the state goes,
what we wanna do is we wanna keep track
of whether you're playing or not.
So, let's say playing or
playing and then setPlaying.
That's gonna be a state here.
We're gonna default to true.
So, when this component loads up,
it's automatically gonna start playing.
That means we're only gonna show this
control if you have active songs.
So you won't see the play bar
at the bottom until you click on
a player's until you click on the song and
then it'll show up.
So this thing is visual.
It's always playing, you can pause it,
but by default as soon as it shows up,
it'll start playing.
So we'll set that to true as a default.
If you don't want that you
can set that to false and
you just have to click Play
again which is annoying.
You have to click play twice.
You click on the song and then click Play.
You don't want that.
Or I guess you could just leave
the controls at the bottom the whole time.
But than you have to set up the play
button to figure out what list of songs
to play that, how would you know that?
So, yeah, that's advanced,
we're not gonna do that.
Other next thing is we need to keep track
of what song is currently playing in
the list of songs that we got.
So we can do that by just using an index,
so I'm just gonna say index and
we'll say setIndex.
And we're gonna set that
equal to use states here.
For now with the save will
always start off at zero,
we'll start at the beginning
of the Songs Playlist.
It will play the first thing
in the array.We'll go back and
we'll change this eventually
because if someone clicks on for
instance, if I'm in here I
clicked this third song.
And this thing automatically defaults
to zero even though I clicked on the on
Start Song, which will send this
whole playlist down to here,
it's gonna immediately go back and play
the first one cuz it starts off at zero.
Instead, we want it to start here.
So eventually we'll have to make this
default to whatever the index of active
song is, but we'll do that later.
So just know that for now to start
at zero if you run into that book,
that's intentional.
We also need to keep track of
seek if you are seeking or not.
So you have the ability to
grab the thumb and seek.
So we got to keep track on
whether you're doing that or not,
because if you are doing that we have
to like dis disable certain things, so
the UI doesn't freak out.
So we'll keep track of
that by saying cons seek,
setSeek, And we'll say, use states.
And this will be, 0, I'm sorry,
this is the value we have to seek.
There's another one that we're gonna use
for setting whether you're seeking or
not I'm way ahead of myself.
This is literally where this is
on the bar, like this right here.
So it's gonna start off at 0 and
then go all the way up to 100 or
whatever the duration is, so
we'll start that off at zero.
I put 0.0, which obviously
doesn't make any sense, but
the reason I put that is because
we're stepping by a decimal, by 0.1.
So, but as far as JavaScript is concerned,
I think zero is the same thing.
So it doesn't really matter,
just doing that.
That way it looks obvious to an engineer
when they come here, then ready to keep
track of repeating or not, so I'll say,
repeat, setRepeat equals you states.
By default, we will not be repeating so,
we'll set that to false.
Same thing with shuffle, I'm just gonna
copy to repeat, replace it with shuffle.
Didn't mean to keep track of
the duration of the song,
so I'll say, cons duration, set duration.
Not sure how much we'll use this, because
the songs actually have durations on them
but I think it might be helpful to keep
track of it in a format that makes sense
for the player and not the format
that is saved in a database.
So that's what this is for,
that also be a decimal like that.
And those are pretty much all the things
we have to keep track of for now.
Once we add the ReactHowler,
we're gonna go down and add that and
we'll add in some handlers.
We'll have a bunch of other stuff that
we need to keep track of as well as
like res and things like that.
But for now, this is pretty much all
we need to get most of the UI done.
So now I'm gonna uncomment
this ReactHowler and
we're going to start
adding some things here.
But this one's gonna require
us to do a bunch of handlers.
Basically ReactHowler, like I said, it's
a JS live that's been wrapped by react,
it doesn't have a visual output,
doesn't show anything on the screen.
It's just a library that controls
the sound API built into the browsers.
And because everyone in
reacts loves components,
they decided to give it
a component interface.
They could have also just
gave us a hook interface and
it would have been probably better.
It would have made more sense.
But it's a component interface and
that's how we're gonna use it.
I was gonna make a hook one and
have that be part of the curriculum,
but it was actually very complicated.
And I was, we're not gonna do that.
I'm that's just too much,
we'll just use this thing.
So props we're gonna pass in here is need
to pass whether it's playing or not.
Good luck, good thing for us.
We have a variable for
that now, it's called playing.
So we'll, say, playing, playing.
The source is gonna be active song prop,
if we have it dot URL,
songs have URLs according
to our database schema.
And then now we're gonna start adding
some handlers to all of our things.
So what we can do here is for
ReactHowler we want to handle
when a song is done playing,
so we can do it on end.
We can do all those different things.
But instead, I think it makes sense to
just start with some of the buttons that
we created for ourselves down here.
So let's go down to our icon buttons.
Okay, the first thing we should tackle
is the fact that we have a play and
pause button here.
So let's fix that.
So what we'll do here is right, let's
grouping the play and the pause button.
Will instead do a conditional and
we'll say, playing, playing is true,
then that means we really wanna show
pause, we want to show the Pause button.
So I will put that here.
If not playing,
then we wanna show the Play button.
So now we have that, if ReactHowler
didn't freak out which it still is, so
you can comment that out until
we finish it, see what we got.
You can see now the Play button is here.
And we're good to go with that.
Question?
>> Do you have use user reducer
to eliminate some of the state?
>> The question is, do I ever use use
reducer to eliminate some of the state?
I've used used reducer once or twice ever.
And it was because I had some amazing
things that I needed to do and
it wasn't so much that I had more state.
It that updating the state
was very complicated.
It's typically when my state is not
primitive values like Boolean of numbers.
If my state is like objects,
then I'm like okay, I need a reducer for
this because updating it is ridiculous.
So cuz that's when you start getting
into immutability versus mutability,
like setting a Boolean a true or
false is easy.
Setting a number is simple, but updating
a nested property, that's really tough.
So a producer actually helps with that.
So that's when I would use use reducers.
When the state is anything
that's not primitive, and
there's like enough that where
it's to paint to update it.
Okay, so we got that and
now we can actually make the toggle work.
So what we can do is we can say, well,
when you click the buttons
it'll toggle the state.
So we need to make a handler for that.
So I'm just gonna make one
function that does both, and
I'm just gonna say cons setPlayState.
And it'll take in a value.
That'll be true or false.
And all it's gonna do is setPlaying
to whatever that value is.
So we got to setPlayState
as it's gonna set playing.
To wherever the value is that you
pass in which will be a Boolean.
Now we can go down to our play pause,
and then on the Pause button,
we're gonna do an onClick.
When you click the Pause button,
We want to say, setPlayState to falsecuz
now you're not playing when you click it.
I'm sorry,
you must set it to true cuz you hit Pause.
So you want to do the opposite of it,
sorry, yeah.
And then for the play,
you wanna do the opposite of that.
I got backwards there.
>> I flipped the the two
values I set false and
then true in the mind started working
>> Maybe I got it backwards again,
backwards backwards today.
Okay, yeah, you're right.
I had it right the first time and then I
was like, wait, this doesn't look right.
There we go.
Now we're toggling on our play and pause.
Thank you for that.
And I'm just gonna set that
back to true for our defaults.
Okay, so now we got our one button.
The next thing we wanna do is
we want to set up the state for
the shuffle and the repeat.
And basically all that's gonna do is
just set those states to true and
then it'll just change the color to
be white cuz right now they're gray.
And we know they're active
when they turn white.
So we're just gonna change the color
when one of those are active.
So let's go to the skip which is the,
or the shuffle which is the first one.
And what we'll do here is we'll
basically just change the color of it.
So we'll say color, and
we can do something like this.
We can say, if it's shuffle, is true,
then we can say, make it whites,
otherwise it'll just be whatever it was,
which was great 600.
So we'll do that.
And we'll do the same thing for the last
button which is to repeat except for
it won't stay alert for the repeat state.
And then to actually trigger
that we just set us onClicks.
So onClick for this button, we just
want to basically toggle whether or
not you're repeating and things like that.
So we'll make some handlers.
So let's say onShuffle and onRepeat.
So const onShuffle, And
then const onRepeat.
They're basically the same thing, so
all we're gonna do is just say setShuffle.
And we could just come in here and say
not shuffled give me the inverse of that.
But setting state is asynchronous and
you never are guaranteed to have
the current state at the time if you're
trying to use it to set the next date.
So you have to put a callback in here, and
then get the current state this way and
then now you can just say,
give me the not state of that.
This guarantees that you have the true
state at the time that you called it.
It will probably still work the other way,
but it's not guaranteed to work that way.
So if you need the current state to
set the next version of the state
always do it in a callback,
that way you get the true current state.
And you won't be lagging behind a couple
of render cycles of what the state was,
which actually does cause a lot of issues.
Same thing for onRepeat, except for
we won't setShuffle will set repeat.
Okay, onShuffle, onRepeat.
So that will go down to
our shuffle right here.
We'll do it onClick, we'll say onShuffle.
And we'll do the same thing for repeat.
Except for onRepeat, there we go.
All right, so now if I click these,
you see shuffle highlights,
turns white, and repeat, same thing.
Good pretty good, good pretty good.
So that was one issue,
this wasn't the one that I said
that I ran into we'll get to that.
But yeah, always again, if you need to
use a current state to set the next date,
you need to always do it in
a callback in a setter function,
you will probably run into some bugs.
If that components doing a lot of
setting somewhere or you'll get like,
some weird stuff happening and then you'll
try to fix it with a use effects and
you have a race condition and
you'll eventually do a set timeout.
And you'd like that salted.
[LAUGH] But all you wanted to do was this.
So if you ever do this set timeout
01 of your functional components,
it's probably somewhere because of this.
That's waiting on the next render,
seems like the play state
wrapper function is redundant.
Totally redundant,
you can do everything in a callback.
But the problem with adding anonymous
callback, like we did is that
it's gonna be created every single
time which is gonna cause renders.
So typically,
you wanna make a function yourself and
use the use callback handler to prevent
that from happening as optimization.
This was just a precursor to that.
So that's just a habit that I always do.
Why you setPlayState but for the rest
onRepeat I asked about the naming.
Okay, so we used setPlayStates
versus the two different things.
That's because setPlayState uses the same
setter function as far as the hook,
whereas onShuffle and onRepeat,
use two different setter functions.
And I didn't feel like passing in a string
to one function to determine if you wanted
to set a shuffle or
if you wanted to set a repeat.
I just didn't feel like checking strings,
so I didn't do that.
Didn't have to do that with play state
because it's always setting the same
setter function.